Documentation on monitoring for app owner (#840)
Altinn/altinn-studio-docs: content/app/monitoring/prerequisites/_index.en.md

---
title: Prerequisites
linktitle: Prerequisites
description: An overview of what you need to get started with Applicaiton Insights for Altinn Apps.
weight: 10
---

- **Test Developer or Production Developer role in Azure.**    
    Test Developer role grants access to AI for apps in TT02 and Production Developer role grants access to apps in production. 

    [Instructions on how to request access is available here](http://localhost:1313/app/getting-started/access-management/apps/#tilgang-til-logger-og-hemmeligheter)

- **General overview of AI features**    
    AI has a number of features available. 

    [Check Microsoft's official documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview?tabs=net)
    for a quick overview.
  

> - **Basic knwoledge of Kusto Query Language (KQL)**    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Basic knowledge of Kusto Query Language (KQL)**    
```

>     Quries in AI are written using KQL. The possibilities within data visualisation and exploration are many with KQL,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Queries in AI are written using KQL. The possibilities within data visualisation and exploration are many with KQL,
```

>     but the average app developer can get away with learning the basics to help identify data points of interest. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    but the most common tasks don't require more than the basics to help identify data points of interest. 
```

>     [Find an overview of KQL and sample quiries on the Microsoft website.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    [Find an overview of KQL and sample queries on the Microsoft website.](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/data-explorer/kusto/query/)
```
